[THEME MUSIC]
>>JAY WEIDNER: Hey Jason.
Thanks for joining us.
>>JASON RICE: Thank
you, Jay, for having me.
>>JAY: So we're
back on Mars now.
You've completed your training,
your four-month training.
You're probably quite
anxious to do something,
because two years of
training is an awful lot.
So what happened at that point?
>>RICE: Well, the
mission of IDARF
was to provide troops
resources, to provide
defensive capabilities
to other planets that
were under either direct
current or imminent threat
from an invasion by
an alien species.
And so we were real
excited about being
able to go and try
and help these people.
My first deployment was to
be referred to as Area 26.
I was a platoon leader,
and my first mission
was to take my platoon
and move into this city
and to gather intelligence
and information that we would
be later using to help them
form a defensive plan, come up
with objectives for
resources they need to save
and stockpile, and areas that we
could help them on for defense.
But our first mission was
to reconnoiter the city,
find out what kind of social
arrangements they have,
how the city's laid
out, how it's set up,
what kind of technologies
they were using.
There's a lot of information
that we just didn't have.
And so these were
the initial stages
before the planetary governments
went public with, hey,
we've gotten help.
We're about to be
invaded, and these
are the guys that are
going to be helping us.
>>JAY: Was everything
as you were told
when you were deployed there?
Or were there deceptions?
>>RICE: Oh, there
were deceptions.
Make no mistake about it.
The deceptions that they
used for us, number one,
is that the same group calling
the shots with the IDARF fleet
were the same groups that were
providing the alien invasions
and that that was their means
to get their foot in the door
as they required a planetary
population to declare
a single government.
They required that
government to invite them in.
government to allow
them to establish a financial
system, again, means
of control, means
of manipulation.
>>JAY: So you're
saying the people
that were commanding
IDARF were also
funding the alien invasion.
>>RICE: The Draco,
that's correct.
>>JAY: The Cabal
also must've started
raising their own
armies just to make
sure they had at least equal
amounts with the Germans,
right?
>>RICE: Well, they had
the fallback kill switch
that they had as a last
resort, if they needed to.
But you're right.
It doesn't account for
the other 24,000 soldiers
that the Germans did
provide themselves.
>>JAY: You mentioned
the kill switch.
>>RICE: Yes, that has
to do with the failsafe
that the Cabal built
into the 24,000 soldiers
that they provided
to the Mars Germans.
It is a special code within a
particular nanite enhancement
that provides suicide of the
soldier at the, basically,
push of a button.
And included in that are the
munitions that are hidden
onboard the ships.
Now those work out to a distance
of about 500 light years,
so the ships may be
1,000 light years away.
But once they enter that zone
of within 500 light years
of Earth, then it
would be transmitted
through the ship's transmitters
or the retransmitters that
are included with the units.
>>JAY: And would it dismantle
the weapons onboard or?
>>RICE: It would cause
each of the soldiers
with that nanite
enhancement to die,
as well as the explosion of
the anti-matter munitions
that they've hidden.
>>JAY: We're going to get into
the suits and the technology
in detail in a future program.
>>RICE: They're
absolutely amazing.
The abilities that soldiers
have from these suits--
they're ballistic-resistant.
They have servo controls and
electro motor controls built
into them for enhanced
strength-- jumping, running,
you name it.
They're self-sustaining so
that you could be in the worst
environment-- deadly, toxic--
and still survive, up
to and including space
that all the radiation,
the heat, cold, anything.
They're absolutely
amazing suits.
>>JAY: OK, so Jason,
you went to a planet.
I'd like to know a little
more about this planet,
like were there humanoids
that lived there?
>>RICE: The inhabitants of
this planet were humans.
They were a little bit smaller
than the typical Earth humans,
average height being
about five feet, which
is one of the reasons why
I was able to blend in.
So I'm not much
taller than that.
But their size was equivalent
to a healthy human.
It was just they were
a little bit smaller.
The flora and fauna--
they had a lot of trees
that resembled pine trees,
pine needles.
We called them near pines.
They had forests that were full
of near oaks, rivers, streams.
There's a greater prevalence
of fresh water as opposed
to Earth, which is covered
mostly by saltwater.
>>JAY: Did they have
different races?
>>RICE: This planet
had different races.
They were light-skinned,
dark-skinned.
The predominant race
were lighter-skinned,
kind of like an olive
Greek or Mediterranean.
>>JAY: And eye
color-- same thing?
Different eye colors?
>>RICE: Different eye colors,
different hair colors.
>>JAY: And what do they eat?
>>RICE: They ate
fruits, vegetables.
They did not eat
livestock or meat.
>>JAY: They didn't.
>>RICE: They were a heavy
seafood diet, if you will.
The first town that
I was deployed to
was right on a very, very
large lake, freshwater body.
And it was large enough that you
couldn't see the other side--
many, many, many miles, probably
the size of the Gulf of Mexico.
>>JAY: And do they
have an industry,
or was it mostly
farms and agriculture?
>>RICE: No, they
had mixed industry.
They did not have a financial
monetary-based economy
like we have here.
Their economy was
based on bartering
for services and goods.
It was more of a clan
or a guild-based system
that they used.
And so our first
mission was to find out
as much as we could
about the people
that we were going
to be helping.
>>JAY: Were they a warring
people or a gentle people or?
>>RICE: They were not warring.
In fact, they hadn't had wars
or fighting in centuries,
by the time we'd gotten there.
>>JAY: So this
alien invasion must
have been shocking to them.
>>RICE: It was.
It was very shocking to them.
They were not prepared to
circle the wagons, so to speak.
>>JAY: Do they have weapons?
>>RICE: No, they did not.
>>JAY: They did
not have weapons,
so they were, really,
in some ways, bad shape.
>>RICE: They were in bad shape.
And we were set out
to, first, figure
out what kind of
civilization they had.
We didn't know if
they were guild-based.
they had money.
So we had to first find
out, so we told them
we were from far enough away,
but we brought trading goods
that were equivalent
to what they were
using at the time for trading.
And we were wanting--
our goals, we told
them, was to set up
a trade mission of some
type to exchange goods
from one city to another.
>>JAY: Did you learn
their language?
>>RICE: I must have learned
it before we made planetfall
as part of the programming
that I received.
>>JAY: So we have kind
of a gentle people living
on a planet somewhere,
and did the aliens invade
before you guys arrived?
>>RICE: No we arrived
well enough in advance,
so we thought, that we
would have time to prepare.
>>JAY: So you had
intel that told you
the aliens were coming.
>>RICE: Somebody had
intel that thought
that they knew when the
aliens were going to arrive,
when the invasion was going
to happen, roundabouts.
Usually, it was
within a month or two
was the target
that they gave us.
>>JAY: But you've also said
that the same group that
was behind the aliens
was the same group that
was behind your forces.
>>RICE: That's correct.
>>JAY: But you didn't
know that then.
>>RICE: Did not know
that at the time.
>>JAY: That was something
that came as a surprise.
>>RICE: There would've
massive revolts soon.
>>JAY: So you arrived
on this planet,
and the first thing
you do is you're just
going to do intel,
gentle Intel to find out
what the landscape is like.
>>RICE: Blend in.
>>JAY: Blend in.
>>RICE: Become
members of the city
for a period of
three to six months.
>>JAY: OK, and no military or--
>>RICE: No military.
Dress like they do.
>>JAY: And the aliens
are on their way.
>>RICE: They're on their way.
We had planned on getting
there a year in advance,
so we would have time to blend
in, to find out, to scout,
to gain information,
gain the trust.
>>JAY: And what would
be the ultimate end
of this intel gathering?
>>RICE: So that we could
tailor the defensive systems
and the methods based on what
they had, the way that they
did things so that
we could blend it
in as seamlessly as possible.
>>JAY: Did you guys
like these people?
>>RICE: Yes.
>>JAY: You did.
>>RICE: We did.
>>JAY: Yeah,
everybody liked them.
>>RICE: They were
all very likeable.
Their society was
based on very open.
There wasn't checkpoints.
There weren't any
real heavy questions
doubting where we'd come from.
They were very trusting, a very
friendly, very open society.
People were helpful.
>>JAY: Was there a culture--
music, art?
>>RICE: Oh, yeah.
Art, culture, music.
They had their own artwork that
they decorated the city with,
whether it was--
they didn't have any
motorized vehicles.
The cities were
generally small enough
that 800,000 were about
the size of the city
that we first went to.
And right at the edge of where
the city ended, it was forest.
And so they only expanded
as they needed to grow,
and it was interesting to stand.
You could stand on the dividing
line between wild forest
and urbanized area.
There was not
really any suburbs.
They built out as much as they
needed when they needed to.
>>JAY: The aliens
that later attacked--
what were they like?
>>RICE: The aliens
that later attacked--
those were the
werewolf-like aliens.
That's what we had
termed them to be,
as they were a cross between
an eight-foot tall hominid
with quadrupedal, two arms,
two legs, except they had
hair and fur and larger ears.
They had a shortened
snout but lots of teeth.
If you can imagine something
that's terrifyingly scary,
that is what we were looking at.
>>JAY: Is it possible
that somebody on Earth
got a hold of DNA
or something and was
trying to make these creatures?
>>RICE: Well, knowing that these
creatures were split into two
classes--
they were the soldier class
and the commander class,
and you couldn't
tell any difference
between them physically.
It was just the level of
intelligence between the two.
The soldier class were a
lot like drones, directed
and ordered, and then they would
go without stopping or thinking
about their own safety.
And the commanders were the ones
that were calling the shots.
It's possible, since
they were a created
being for the purposes
of invading this planet,
that that same DNA
or that same pattern
was brought and repeated here.
>>JAY: You specifically said
that these werewolf creatures
were created.
>>RICE: Yes.
>>JAY: What do you mean by that?
>>RICE: Well, we
believed at the time,
and knowing now what
I know, that they were
an artificial
creation of some sort,
because they didn't have the
same type of biological makeup,
once we got a chance
to examine them
and Intelligence had a chance
to provide a report back to us,
because we were very
interested in finding out
the most efficient areas
to aim for, essentials.
So in finding out that there
were more mechanism-type parts
and components than there were
tissue or organ-type parts.
>>JAY: Ah, so a combination
of machine and--
>>RICE: Biological, yes.
>>JAY: Why would
these creatures want
to invade such a peaceful world?
>>RICE: Don't have
the slightest idea.
We didn't know what their
ultimate goal was, except
that they were looking
to take over the planet
and kill the inhabitants.
That's what we were told.
And that's, essentially, what
we saw from their actions.
>>JAY: So what was the first
thing that happened in this war
that really you knew now
this was going to be--
>>RICE: This was real.
This is it.
>>JAY: Yeah, this is it.
Something-- they must have
done a first invasion.
>>RICE: There was.
The first realization that it
wasn't just a training exercise
anymore was when I was at that
city that we had first gone to,
and I'd been there
a couple months.
Me and the rest of my platoon--
we'd spread out over the
city in different houses
and taken up local jobs
to try and blend in,
working for some of the local
restaurants or shops or carts
and moving things
and hauling things.
And so we'd started
integrating with the city
to try and build up the
relationships with the locals.
And one day-- this happened
to be my day off- the city
was well interspersed
with canals, everything
from a few feet wide to
a few hundred feet wide.
A lot of their methods for
moving goods around the city
was by the canals,
because they were
able to put a lot
more on a barge
and move it under
manpower than they
were on a cart of some kind.
So the place where I was
taking my early evening meal
was right next to a canal.
The beach was a couple of
blocks from where I was,
and I noticed, first
off, something was off,
because there were people
all going towards the beach
and towards the bridge
crossing, the major canal
between the breakwater
and the mainland.
It was just something
out of the ordinary.
It definitely wasn't normal
for a group of people.
And I asked them, somebody
walking by, what was going on.
And they told me that something
was falling out of the sky.
So I'm like, what?
I was very curious,
and so I got up
and started walking towards
the beach across the bridge,
and that's when the
first sonic boom hit.
A lot of the people that were
already on the bridge walking
were shocked and stunned by it.
You'd see them duck
down or start to react.
I ran out to the observation
deck that is on the breakwater
structure, and I
ran towards an area,
because I still didn't
have a clear view because
of trees and buildings.
And when I got to the
clearing, I saw it.
>>JAY: What'd you see?
>>RICE: It was some type of
meteor that was coming down.
I was able to dial
in my enhanced vision
a little bit to get a better
picture of what it was.
And that's when I
saw what was actually
coming towards the lake.
>>JAY: Which was?
>>RICE: It was a
modified impactor that
had been fitted with a
very crude heat shield
to prevent it from breaking
up, and it was on its way
towards landing somewhere
out in the lake.
>>JAY: A spaceship
disguised as a meteorite?
>>RICE: No, it was a
kinetic energy weapon.
And what they use is they will
take any large enough sized
rock that they
can find in space,
fit a really crude
heat shield to it
so that it doesn't break
apart, and then launch it
towards the surface and the
areas that they want to try
and strike.
>>JAY: Right, like using
a mass driver to push it.
>>RICE: Exactly.
It was a mass driver,
just a large piece of mass
that builds up enough kinetic
energy that when it strikes,
it doesn't have the messy
side effect of radiation.
But it certainly has enough
fusion and explosion,
concussion and
heat that it causes
a tremendous amount of damage.
>>JAY: And you knew that this
was artificial, because you
saw the heat shield.
>>RICE: That's correct.
>>JAY: Had you been briefed
earlier about this possibility?
>>RICE: I'd been briefed earlier
about this was one of their MOs
for opening salvos is
that they would soften up
the surface by launching
kinetic energy weapons.
>>JAY: And when this
thing hit, what happened?
>>RICE: Well, before it hit,
I was in momentary shock,
and then training took over.
I had communication with
the rest of my platoon,
and so we had
already established
protocols for quick signals.
Within a few characters,
we were able to transmit
an entire message.
So I was able to send that
out to the rest of my platoon
to let them know, hey, we've
got an impactor on the way
and to follow our SOP plan
for what we were going to do,
which is get to high ground,
store and secure the equipment,
and watch your six.
So--
>>JAY: Watch your six?
>>RICE: Yeah, watch your six.
>>JAY: What's that?
>>RICE: Watch your back.
>>JAY: Watch your back.
>>RICE: After I sent
the signal, there
were a number of
people that were out
on the observation deck.
And so I was concerned
with getting them off,
because I knew that if that
struck the water, which
is what it looked like
it was going to do,
we would be inundated with
a very, very large wave.
And so I wanted to try and get
as many people off as I could.
And so I started
talking to the crowd
and trying to get them
back towards the mainland
without scaring
them into a panic.
And I was able to get a
large number of people
to start moving,
and then more people
started going away as well.
And we were almost back
across the pedestrian bridge
when it struck and lit up
the entire sky behind me.
It was enough that
I saw the light,
and then I knew that the wave
was going to be coming soon.
And so the impact was enough
to get the rest of the crowd
and people running.
On my way back, one of the local
kids had started talking to me,
and I directed him to get back
across, get to the mainland,
find high ground as
quick as you can.
And I knew that it
wouldn't be long
before we got hit by the
wave, so I started running
with the rest of the crowd.
If I hadn't, I would
have been run over.
And I made it about a
block away from the canal,
and I turned and looked back
towards the breakwater in time
to see most of the structures
there disappear from the wave.
And it was just like
watching buildings disappear.
>>JAY: So the
concussion was so large
that it was literally
destroying buildings.
>>RICE: It destroyed
the buildings out
on the breakwater.
>>JAY: Wow.
>>RICE: And it was
coming right for us.
And I knew I needed
to get someplace low--
a ditch, an alcove,
something so that-- or else
I'd be killed with it.
And I found an alley
and started running down
an alley, and along the back
of one of the buildings,
and crouched in a corner
as quickly as I could
about the time that
the freight train
hit and started taking
out the building that
was right above me.
>>JAY: The concussion wave.
>>RICE: The concussion wave.
And I could see clearly from
there all the way to the coast.
And I could see parts of
buildings in the canal,
and I could see bloody, dusty
people moving around or getting
up from underneath stuff.
And moments before
the streets were
filled with hundreds
of people, they
were all gone, disappeared.
I needed to go check the
quarters that I was sharing
with a couple of other
members of my platoon
and see if I could go ahead
and grab the emergency gear
or anything that was left in
case they didn't make it out
with it and to check and
see if any of my unit
were still there.
And so I ran down, got into the
building that we were staying
in, which is a couple of houses
down from the intersection,
found a first aid
kit in a backpack,
and I started making
my way, running up
towards the hill, which
was another block away
when the waves hit.
And by that time, I was far
enough away from the coast
that its energy had
been dissipated some,
but it still made
it up to my chest
before I was able to get to
a point where I was safe.
>>JAY: You did get
to safety, though.
>>RICE: I did.
>>JAY: And did they fire
any more of these weapons
at this point?
>>RICE: No, I found out later
they were aiming for the city.
But the problem with unguided
kinetic energy weapons
is that even if you're
off half a degree,
you can be off by
several hundred miles.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: And this one missed
its target by 50 to 75 miles,
thankfully, or else we'd
have been incinerated.
>>JAY: It would've
killed everybody.
>>RICE: Killed everybody.
>>JAY: What do the people of
this planet do at that point?
>>RICE: Well, we had
to step up our plans
for organizing and arranging
and coordinating at that point.
Part of the operation
involved cleanup,
and afterwards, I lost a few
members of my platoon that day.
And part of the company
commander's complaint--
he was a Mars German--
was that he believed that there
was more that I could have done
to save my soldiers
and also commented,
since I cared so much about
those effing civilians,
that I could stay
without reinforcements
and help clean up
in the aftermath.
I should have been worried more
about my platoon, which there
was nothing I could have done.
And my platoon sergeant
reinforced that for me
and said that if I had done
what the company commander had
suggested that I wouldn't
have survived probably
another month.
>>JAY: So you got stuck on
this planet for a while.
>>RICE: Yeah, I got
stuck doing cleanup work
without reinforcements
as a punishment
for helping the local civilians.
>>JAY: Did any meteors hit
anywhere else on the planet,
or is this the
only one that hit--
>>RICE: There were
a series of them
that went into different
places on the planet.
They were trying to attack.
>>JAY: So the planet has
been hit all over the place.
>>RICE: Yes.
>>JAY: You probably knew
more than the civilians
of the planet.
>>RICE: We did.
We had more of a handle
on what was going on.
Again, general
public weren't aware
yet that they were facing
an impending invasion.
>>JAY: All right, so
then what happened?
>>RICE: Well, part of their
MO we'd been briefed on
was that they would also bombard
the poles with kinetic energy
weapons deliberately to
melt polar ice, which,
of course, raises
the sea level, which
anybody with oceanfront property
ends up getting flooded.
Luckily, the city we were in
was on a lake and not part
of the oceans, so ours
weren't as affected
by that as some of
the other areas.
There were areas that were on
the ocean that ended up being
under 20, 30 feet of water.
I remember seeing parts
of the city that were--
it's all under water.
And it's just eerie silence.
Nobody.
You couldn't find
people up on top
of buildings that had survived.
But unfortunately,
the water levels
hadn't risen to a point
where it wasn't receding yet,
and so after the attack,
there were large portions
of the city that were
left uninhabited,
because the population
just wasn't there.
And the next thing that
we had to worry about
was, what do we do for food?
And then we have to help
the city organize and get
themselves food and fed.
>>JAY: How long
did this war last?
>>RICE: We were on
planet for 47 months.
>>JAY: Wow, almost four years.
>>RICE: Almost four years.
>>JAY: And we're going
to get into this war,
but I want to go back to
something you said earlier
that I think is important.
And that is you said
that you later found out
a faction was funding both
sides of this war-- your side
and the werewolf's side.
Who was this?
>>RICE: A Draco.
>>JAY: The Draco.
For what purpose?
>>RICE: They eventually wanted
to gain control of that planet.
>>JAY: Resources?
>>RICE: Resources, slaves.
>>JAY: And so they were creating
a war that would be what?
A diversion.
What was the point of
having a war, though?
I mean why didn't the
werewolf creatures
just invade and take over?
>>RICE: Well, what
they wanted is
they wanted to have a planet
that was mostly intact.
They wanted a population that
was not able to fight back.
They needed to be invited
in, which was our part.
And they allowed us to
go and offer assistance.
And as part of the
conditions for that,
we required them to have a
single government, a one world
government so that it was easier
to coordinate and organize
and arrange.
So as part of--
>>JAY: The Draco wanted this?
>>RICE: The Draco wanted this.
>>JAY: Same thing with
the financial situation?
They wanted to stop the
bartering and the guilds and--
>>RICE: Set up that
method of control, yes.
>>JAY: The Babylonian
money system?
>>RICE: Yes.
>>JAY: Interesting.
And the reason they're doing
this is because it's easier
to control the population?
>>RICE: That's correct.
>>JAY: I see.
>>RICE: It's easier to control
those that are desperate,
and when you've got in
a war that has mostly
destroyed a planet, you have a
people that become desperate.
They're desperate to survive
and to carry on and to live.
And so when you've got somebody
that's in that position,
they would pretty much get
anything and everything
they wanted, which was to turn
over control of the planet
to do whatever they
needed them to do in order
to help them to fight
off the invading force.
>>JAY: So we have a
very peaceful planet.
Why did they want to
attack these people?
>>RICE: Well, another one
of the MOs that I noticed
was that we never went
to any planets that
had more advanced technology.
And they always
ended up sending us
to planets that were industrial
age or less on the technology
scale.
And the reason is
that if they stood
a chance of being able to
repel the invasion themselves,
then we weren't needed.
>>JAY: So they are weak
by the nature of the fact
that they hadn't advanced yet.
>>RICE: That's correct.
>>JAY: So you thought that
your presence was benevolent?
>>RICE: Yes, we
thought we were there
to help these people
defend their planet.
And we didn't think
of we were there
to enslave the planet for
somebody else's control.
We were briefed and
told countless times
that our purpose and our
mission was to go and help
local populations defend their
planet from alien invasion.
>>JAY: Well, it's been a real
pleasure talking to you today,
Jason.
I thank you for coming forward.
>>RICE: Well, thank
you for having me.
This is all about
full disclosure.
>>JAY: Thanks, Jason.
Thanks for watching.
>>ANNOUNCER: Coming this season
on "Cosmic Disclosure," where
people share their clandestine
involvement with government
agencies, the military,
and secret space programs.
>>EMERY SMITH: There's
these amazing technologies
that are coming
through that are kind
of being utilized in the wrong
way, but at the same time,
can utilize it to
help the Earth.
>>RICE: So we essentially
set up ourselves as bait so
that they would come
in in large numbers,
and then we'd destroy them.
>>COREY GOODE: Full
disclosure would
destroy a lot of belief systems,
but a lot of our belief systems
need to be destroyed anyway.
>>SMITH: Yeah, I agree.
>>GOODE: They've
been control systems.
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
[THEME MUSIC]